---
title:  "Finance:   Momentum Trading"
date:   2020-07-08 05:37:00
categories: finance
---

*What's common in Healthcare, Accounting, Social Media, News, Agriculture, Mining?* **FINANCE**

>*Who are Quantitative Analysts AKA Quants?*
>
>Quants apply scientific methods to Finance.
>Interesting thing is that its easy to predict based on mathematical models but the true winners have to predict a combination of
 mathematical models and human behaviors.
>Success in Financial Markets is combination of: **Finance + Mathematics + Psychology**

## Basics

Financial Terminology

* Stock: An asset that represents ownership in a company. A claim on part of a corportation's assets and earnings. There are two main
 types, common and preferred.

* Common Stock: One main type of stock; entitles the owner to receive dividends and to vote at shareholder meetings.

* Preferred Stock: The other main type of stock; generally does not entail voting rights, but entitles the owner to a higher claim on the
 assets and earnings of a company.

* Dividend: A partial distribution of a company's profits to shareholders.

* Capital Gains: Profits that result from the sale of an asset at a price higher than the purchase price.

* Security: A tradable financial asset.

* Debt Security: Money that is owed and must be repaid, like government or corporate bonds, or certificates of deposit. Also called fixed
-income securities.

* Derivative Security: A financial instrument whereby its value is derived from other assets.

* Equity: The value of an owned asset minus the amount of all debts on that asset.

* Equity Security: A security that represents fractional ownership in an entity, such as stock.

* Option Contract: A contract which gives the buyer the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell an underlying asset at a specified
 price on or by a specified date

* Futures Contract: A contract that obligates the buyer to buy or the seller to sell an asset at a predetermined price at a specified time
 in the future
 
### Types of Securities:
* Debt Securities(COD, Bonds etc)
* Derivative Securities(Values derived from other securities... Options, Future contracts)
* Equity Securities(Stocks(Ownership in a firm))
 
### Buy Side vs Sell Side
* Sell Side - Provides liquidity(Market Makers such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs etc )
* Buy Side (Individual Investors, Funds etc)

### Fundamentals
* SPS: Sales Per Share (Sales)/Total Shares Outstanding
* EPS: Earnings Per Share (Sales - Cost of Sales)/Total Shares Outstanding
* DPS: Dividends Per Share
* PE Ratio: Price to Earnings (Stock Price/EPS) Be careful here, Stock Price might include the future value.

## Alpha Research
Test your intuition.

## Data Pre-processing
Possible Data Sets: Tick, Company Actions, News, Technical Indicators, Alt Data sources such as Satellite Data, Web Scrapping etc


### Missing Values
Stock data is not continuous. End of day data contains row for each day? No. Events can occur the days when the market is closed can
 affect the price of the stock the following day, so we should not ignore the off days.


 
